# Accepted Proposals

Name | Summary | Link | Tests | Phase
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
Respecting Backwards Compatibility | - Defines the main output of this initiative as "JSON Logic Core" <br/><br/> - Establishes `tests.json` as our baseline compatibility suite for JSON Logic Core. <br/><br/> - Introduces the concept of the "Legacy" Extension. <br/><br/> - Defines a process for deprecating operators as we define JSON Logic Core, without breaking backwards compatibility. | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/16 | [base.json](https://github.com/json-logic/.github/blob/main/tests/base.json) | 3
Define JSON Logic on the JSON Data Model | - Defines JSON Logic on the data model of JSON Logic, (strings, numbers, true / false, null, arrays, objects) <br/><br/> - JSON Logic may be embedded in other formats, given it provides the same constructs (e.g. YAML) <br/> <br/> - JSON Logic is not defined strictly on the lexical parsing of JSON, but on the data model constructs (whitespace, number formatting, etc is out of scope) <br/><br/> - Core will be precision agnostic with respect to numbers. Operators will be defined from a pure math definition. <br/><br/> - The JSON Logic Organization can mandate a "Recommended Baseline" for implementations, that can be updated as Community Extensions become more common. This is not attached to the RFC. <br/><br/> - This mandated baseline could specify necessary supported precision(s). <br/><br/> - Profiles / Baselines maintained by the JSON Logic Organization will be shown in our compatibility tables.  | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/17 | N/A | 3
`val` and context replacements | - Deprecates `var`, `missing` and `missing_some` to the legacy extension <br/> <br/> - Defines `val`, `exists` and `??` | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/18 | [`val.json`](tests/val.json), [`exists.json`](tests/exists.json), [`coalesce.json`](tests/coalesce.json) | 1
 Amend Test Specification / Error Handling | - Defines that errors like `NaN` should bubble up the AST and halt execution, unless handled. <br/><br/> - Extends the test specification to be able to test for errors. <br/><br/> - Introduces two new operators, `throw` and `try` <br/><br/> - Defines that division by zero results in a `NaN` error. | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/20 | [`throw.json`](tests/throw.json), [`try.json`](tests/try.json) | 1
 Linear Time Ruling | - Establishes a guideline for selecting enabled by default JSON Logic operators. <br/><br/> - All JSON Logic Core operators must be definable to run in a worst case  Linear Time; ≤ Θ(n).<br/><br/> - Community Extensions may be recognized with operators that exceed this, but they must not be recommended for enablement by default. <br /><br/> - This is not an implementation mandate, rather a guideline for TC and Organization members to select JSON Logic operators in a way that mitigates denial of service attacks when rules are executed from an untrusted source. | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/24 | N/A | 3
 Arithmetic Operators | - The first proposal of several to evaluate existing operators and define any ambiguous behavior / improve consistency of the operators. <br/><br/> - Defined various `NaN` error states (invalid string coercions, divisions by zero) <br/><br/> - Defined Zero Argument and Single Argument and Variadic behavior for each operator (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`) <br/><br/> - The variadic operators are treated as `foldLeft` <br/> <br/> - Defined numeric coercion rules. | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/21 | [plus.json](tests/plus.json), [minus.json](tests/minus.json), [multiply.json](tests/multiply.json), [divide.json](tests/divide.json), [modulo.json](tests/modulo.json) | 1
Embedded Empty Object & Undefined Operators | - Defines that `{}` in the logic should be interpreted as "create an empty object" / pass-through. <br/><br/> - Defines the throw type for undefined / unknown operators. <br/><br/> - Defines that objects with multiple keys should throw unknown operator; though the door for multi-key operators is half-open. | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/30 | [`empty-objects.json`](/tests/empty-objects.json), [`unknown-operators.json`](/tests/unknown-operators.json) | 1
Remove Implicit Argument Sugaring | - Eliminates the principle of argument sugaring from JSON Logic, which would wrap arguments in an array if it was not an array prior to passing them into the operator. <br/><br/> - Operators are now responsible for handling their arguments. <br/><br/> - Some standard conventions were defined to help define operators, namely you can define `{ op: [n] }` should match the behavior of `{ op: n }`, and you may describe an operator as "chaining". | https://github.com/orgs/json-logic/discussions/28 | N/A | 1*
